documentation/Readme.md, before:

# Proton Documentation

## API on Apiary

This folder */apiary* contains the sources describing the Proton CEP API. The final results of this documentation is visible in the following link:
http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/ishkin/Proton/blob/master/documentation/apiary/CEP-apiary-blueprint.html

## User, Programmer and Installation Guides

### On github

Installation guide:

* markdown: https://github.com/ishkin/Proton/blob/master/documentation/markdown/Proton-InstallationAndAdminGuide.md

User guide:

* pdf: https://github.com/ishkin/Proton/blob/master/documentation/ProtonUserGuidev5.4.1.pdf
* markdown: https://github.com/ishkin/Proton/blob/master/documentation/markdown/ProtonUserGuide_FI_WARE5_4_1.md

Programmers guide:

* pdf: https://github.com/ishkin/Proton/blob/master/documentation/ProtonProgrammerGuidev5.4.1.pdf
* markdown: https://github.com/ishkin/Proton/blob/master/documentation/markdown/ProtonProgrammerGuide_FI_WAREv4_4_1.md

### On ReadTheDocs
The user, programmer's and installation manuals are processed for easy browsing on ReadTheDocs:
http://proactive-technology-online.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html

## Updates
* July, 2016: Latest revision of the user guide is at 5.4.1, programmer's guide did not change.

Commit message:

added link to PROTON on STORM.

documentation/Readme.md, after:

# Proton Documentation

## API on Apiary

This folder */apiary* contains the sources describing the Proton CEP API. The final results of this documentation is visible in the following link:
http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/ishkin/Proton/blob/master/documentation/apiary/CEP-apiary-blueprint.html

## User, Programmer and Installation Guides

### On github

Installation guide:

* markdown: https://github.com/ishkin/Proton/blob/master/documentation/markdown/Proton-InstallationAndAdminGuide.md

User guide:

* pdf: https://github.com/ishkin/Proton/blob/master/documentation/ProtonUserGuidev5.4.1.pdf
* markdown: https://github.com/ishkin/Proton/blob/master/documentation/markdown/ProtonUserGuide_FI_WARE5_4_1.md

Programmers guide:

* pdf: https://github.com/ishkin/Proton/blob/master/documentation/ProtonProgrammerGuidev5.4.1.pdf
* markdown: https://github.com/ishkin/Proton/blob/master/documentation/markdown/ProtonProgrammerGuide_FI_WAREv4_4_1.md

### On ReadTheDocs
The user, programmer's and installation manuals are processed for easy browsing on ReadTheDocs:
http://proactive-technology-online.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html

## Proton on STORM
This special version of the CEP engine that operates over the distributed high performance STORM platform is documented separately: https://github.com/ishkin/Proton/blob/master/documentation/IBM%20Proactive%20Technology%20Online%20on%20STORM/Proton%20and%20Proton%20on%20top%20of%20STORM.pdf

## Updates
* July, 2016: Latest revision of the user guide is at 5.4.1, programmer's guide did not change.
